Newsletters: add 319 (2024-09-06) (#1867)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-09-06-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #319'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2024/09/06/
name: 2024-09-06-newsletter
slug: 2024-09-06-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **Stratum v2 extension for fee revenue sharing:** Filippo Merli
  [posted][merli stratumfees] to Delving Bitcoin about an extension to
  [Stratum v2][topic pooled mining] that will allow tracking the amount
  of fees included in _shares_ when the shares contain transactions
  selected by an individual miner.  This can be used to adjust the
  amount paid to the miner by the pool, with miners selecting higher
  feerate transactions being paid more.

  Merli links to a [paper][merli paper] he co-authored that examines
  some of the challenges of paying different miners different amounts

>   based on the transactions they select, and which suggests a scheme

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  based on the transactions they select. The paper suggests a scheme
```
Initially, I was going to suggest replacing "which" with "that" (which I think would be a slight improvement), but this is a pretty long and complex sentence, so maybe break it into two.

  and locking script logic on Bitcoin, applications and protocols
  utilizing `OP_CAT` on Bitcoin, and general research related to
  `OP_CAT` and its impact." Submissions must be received by 1 January
  2025.

- **Mitigating merkle tree vulnerabilities:** Eric Voskuil [posted][voskuil
  spv] to the Delving Bitcoin discussion thread about the [consensus
  cleanup soft fork proposal][topic consensus cleanup] (see [Newsletter
  #296][news296 cleanup]) a request for an update given recent
  [discussion][voskuil spv dev] on the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list.  In
  particular, he saw "no justification for the proposed invalidation of
  64 byte transactions" based on his argument that there's no
  performance improvement to full nodes in protecting against [merkle
  tree vulnerabilities][topic merkle tree vulnerabilities] like
  CVE-2012-2459 by forbidding 64-byte transactions in comparison to
  other checks that can be performed without a consensus change (and,
  indeed, those checks are being performed now).  The consensus cleanup
  proposal champion, Antoine Poinsot, appeared to [agree][poinsot cache]
  about this full node aspect: "The advantage I initially mentioned

>   about how making 64-bytes transactions invalid could help caching

Reviewer: Inside a quote so maybe not, but clearly just a typo (or maybe add "[sic]" but I don't love that unless it's formal writing such as an academic paper):
```suggestion
  about how making 64-bytes transactions invalid could help catching
```

Author: Leaving as-is.  I believe "caching" is the correct term.  He's talking about storing hashes of consensus invalid blocks in a cache.

  delivered. See Newsletter [#232][news232 async].

- [LND #9009][] introduces a mechanism to ban peers for sending invalid channel
  announcements, such as channels that are already spent, have no funding
  transaction, or have an invalid funding output. Banned peers are handled
  differently depending on the relationship:

  - For banned peers without a shared channel, the node disconnects from them.

  - For banned peers with a shared channel, the node ignores all of their
    channel announcements for 48 hours.

- [LDK #3268][] adds `ConfirmationTarget::MaximumFeeEstimate` for a more
  conservative [fee estimation][topic fee estimation] method for [dust][topic
  uneconomical outputs] calculations when checking counterparty feerates, to
  avoid unnecessary force closures caused by sudden fee spikes. This PR also
  splits `ConfirmationTarget::OnChainSweep` into `UrgentOnChainSweep` and
  `NonUrgentOnChainSweep` to distinguish between time-sensitive (e.g., with
  expiring [HTLCs][topic htlc]) and non-urgent force closures.

- [HWI #742][] adds support for the Trezor Safe 5 hardware signing device.

- [BIPs #1657][] adds a new standard field to PSBT outputs for [DNSSEC][dnssec]

>   proofs on [BIP353][]. External devices such as hardware signers may examine

Reviewer 2: "on" seemed a little ambiguous here to me maybe:
```suggestion
  proofs when using [BIP353][]. External devices such as hardware signers may examine
```

Bitcoin infrastructure software.

## News

- **Stratum v2 extension for fee revenue sharing:** Filippo Merli
  [posted][merli stratumfees] to Delving Bitcoin about an extension to
  [Stratum v2][topic pooled mining] that will allow tracking the amount
  of fees included in _shares_ when the shares contain transactions
  selected by an individual miner.  This can be used to adjust the
  amount paid to the miner by the pool, with miners selecting higher
  feerate transactions being paid more.

  Merli links to a [paper][merli paper] he co-authored that examines
  some of the challenges of paying different miners different amounts
  based on the transactions they select. The paper suggests a scheme
  that is compatible with a _pay per last N shares_ (PPLNS) pooled
  mining payout scheme.  His post links to two in-progress
  implementations of the scheme.

- **OP_CAT research fund:** Victor Kolobov [posted][kolobov cat] to the
  Bitcoin-Dev mailing list to announce a $1 million fund for research
  into a proposed soft fork to add an [OP_CAT][topic op_cat] opcode.
  "Topics of interest include but are not limited to: the security

>   implications of OP_CAT activation on Bitcoin, `OP_CAT`-based computing

Reviewer 3: For consistency in this paragraph:

```suggestion
  implications of `OP_CAT` activation on Bitcoin, `OP_CAT`-based computing
```
